Did you know that only 20% of candidates receive a job offer after an interview?
That’s right! And a big part of that success comes down to how well you answer HR questions.
That’s why I’ve put together this list of 50+ most commonly asked HR interview questions along with smart answers to help you stand out.
To make things even easier, I’ve categorized these HR questions—so you can prepare with confidence.
Let’s begin!
Give an example of a time you had to respond to an unhappy manager/customer/colleague/professor/friend.
Go through these common HR interview questions and answers to gain confidence.
Note: Please make sure that you talk about relevant skills and certifications, wherever needed.
The job selection process, especially in India, comprises of the following rounds.
Once the first four rounds are done, your HR round comes into the picture.
As a candidate, here you are supposed to give a brief introduction, answer a few HR interview questions about your job role or career and in the end, discuss salary, perks, benefits, deductions, company rules and regulations, conditions etc., with the HR.
Fun Fact:
Only 20% of applicants get an interview – With an average of 118 applications per job, only a fifth make it to the next stage.
Landing the job is even tougher – If you receive an offer, you’re among just 30.89% of those interviewed who got selected.
Getting nervous is perfectly human, but how to make sure that the answers you are about to give are smart enough and will lead to selection?
By using our list of most frequently asked HR round questions and answers (with multiple versions).
“Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity” - Richard Branson
And when it comes to job interviews, preparation is everything!
Here’s why preparing for HR interview questions matter:
Let’s start with some of the most popular HR interview questions and answers.
This is one of the most commonly asked HR interview questions.
Your answer has to be short + crisp + to the point.
Fun Fact:
First impression matters - Approximately 33% of interviewers decide within the first 90 seconds if they will hire a candidate.
Here are some possible high-impact answers to help you leave a great impression.
“Thank you, Sir/Ma’am for this opportunity. I am from XYZ City and belong to a nuclear family.
My father is a Central Government Employee and my mother is a Vice Principal at a private school.
My younger sister will appear her CBSE 10 board this year.
We are a very close-knit family. On an individual front, I perceive myself as a confident, conscientious and hardworking individual.
I carry out any task assigned to me without hesitation, provided the instructions are clear. In the case of doubts, I never hesitate to put forth my questions.
I have always been a fast learner, and I love to keep up my process of learning to figure out better ways of solving problems.
Moreover, I love to compete with my own past performances than competing with my peers, as I believe that improvement is always better than perfection!”
Note: Don’t make the mistake of sharing too much personal information in any of your HR interview questions and answers round.
Fun Fact:
"Tell me about yourself" is the top question – A whopping 93% of hiring managers ask this classic opener.
“Well, I am a confident, hardworking and a very professional individual.
I have always carried out all the tasks assigned to me without hesitation, provided the instructions from my Reporting Managers or seniors were clear.
I have also been a good mentor to my juniors and never hesitate to guide them.
On the other hand, I am a creative person and I love to test my boundaries.
In order to do so, I keep pushing myself to think out of the box!”
This is another version of frequently asked HR Interview questions and answers, for the same question.
Read more HR answers Why are You Looking For a Job Change
Most freshers might treat this as a challenging question. Remember that it is not some sort of a blow to your ego, but a stress test which you can pass smoothly with a powerful answer.
Below given is your perfect answer, which you can use in your discussion pertaining to HR interview questions and answers.
“Sir/Ma’am, I have all the requisite qualifications and skills. I can do the work that the profile requires me to do.
Besides, I have the capacity to deliver exceptional results. I can blend into mixed cultures and will fit in beautifully, which will make me a great addition to the team.
For a fresher, I have the right amount of exposure into this industry, as I have completed my internship with XYZ company only recently.
Hiring me will be a great value-add to your workforce as the organization will keep on gaining, with me around.”
Sell your interviewer on you and close the deal on your dream job while having a discussion on HR interview questions and answers!
Fun Fact:
Social media matters – 92% of companies check candidates’ profiles before inviting them for an interview.
“Sir/Ma’am, I am confident about the fact that my strong technical experience and outstanding knowledge of SKILL1, SKILL2, and SKILL3 make me a strong contender for this position.
I have been in this field for X years. I have got several to pick up skills, for example in my previous organization, I have completed an internal certification on SAP and supply chain management process.
I have successfully executed projects right from inception to delivery.
I must add that today I am sitting here because I strongly believe this is the right place to extend my skills.
This might be excellent for my future and for the growth of this esteemed organization as well.”
Also read: Self-introduction for interview
Some other variations of this question that are generally asked, are as follows.
Your answer remains the same for the below questions as well (amongst all other HR interview questions and answers), as discussed above. But remember to keep it short and precise.
What makes you the best candidate for this position?
Why do you think you can fit well into the position?
What can you bring to the position and to the organization
Read more answers Why Should We Hire You
“I read an article in the newspaper a few months back. The news piece revolved around your corporate community service. I am not exactly a philanthropist, as I am not that rich yet, but giving back is a big part of my personal philosophy. When I read that article, I was moved.
The true excitement overtook me when I got this interview call. It will be really nice if I get to work in an organization, which follows the same philosophies as I personally do.
Because my technical skills will be recognized in other places as well, but personal philosophies are equally important.”
“Teamwork is what I truly believe in. When I saw that there was an opening in your organization, I made sure that my application was put in.
Being a team-player, I believe working together to achieve a higher goal is what drives success in the long run.
And my skills as an engineer and a team member will give me a 360-degree work satisfaction for me”
Read more answers here Why Do You Want This Job
Must Read: Top Unique & Awesome Things To Reveal Company Culture
If you are a fresher or a recent graduate, you might come across these common HR questions for interview.
In a job interview, you can be asked to describe who you are, Describe yourself in one word or Describe yourself in 3 words, but all such questions essentially mean that you talk about your skills and qualities.
You might treat this as one of the easiest HR interview questions. But it is not.
Never underestimate the possibility of scoring better points with a crisp answer, if you feel confident.
It can become a fate-changer for applicants having fewer than 5 years of total job experience.
If your degree is obviously related to the job you’re interviewing for, you can give this answer.
“I am a B. Tech in Computer Science/B. Com in Economics. I also have an MBA or I have completed a certification course in Digital Marketing from ABC Academy.
What else would you like to know?”
In case your degree is not as relevant as it should have been, but you feel that you have the potential to shine through, you can give this answer.
This is a useful tip for HR interview questions and answers.
Also read: How to get a job as a fresher?
“I have worked on an independent project work with 2 other students on Soft Skills.
I have also participated in several paper presentations on Business Communication.”
Note: Do not forget to talk about your major subject in your UG/PG at the University and also about subjects/papers, that are relevant to the job, that you have applied for.
“I have scored an A in Professional and Technical Written Communication in English, in my first semester. Here’s my marksheet.”
Here you will expect a new HR interview question, and the answer to this one will be more relevant to your education.
In case there is an odd pause, start talking about extracurricular activities that you are good at.
For example, you can say this.
“I am a music enthusiast and a beginner level guitarist. I love to jam with my 4-member band every weekend at my place.”
Such an answer will add a light mood to the interview and make things more positive.
This is a very common HR questions for interview.
Remember that interviewers these days hardly ever get impressed by flowery responses.
So be careful while tackling this one.
“I have several strengths namely – I am patient, committed, honest and self-motivated.
I am the biggest dreamer I have ever come across! I forgive easily and hate to keep grudges in my heart.
My greatest weakness is that I don't like getting interrupted when I am seriously into something.
Another one of my weaknesses is that I trust people very easily.
As I already said, I am a very patient person, so I am actively working on this lacuna.”
“My biggest strength is my adaptability and willingness to learn. I quickly grasp new concepts and am always eager to improve.
During my academic projects, I proactively took on challenges, learned new tools, and collaborated well with my team.
However, my weakness is that I sometimes hesitate to ask for help, thinking I should figure everything out myself.
I’m actively working on this by seeking guidance when needed and improving my communication skills.
I believe that with continuous learning and teamwork, I can turn my weaknesses into strengths and contribute effectively to any role.”
Tip: In your HR interview questions and answers round, you must always mention that you are trying to turn your weaknesses into your strengths.
Read more answers about What are Your Strengths and Weeknesses
“In 2024, I was in the final year of college. During that time, I did three things to improve my knowledge.
I got myself enrolled in Aptech for the Sun Certified Java Programmer course. I will appear my exam soon.
I have bought magazine subscriptions such as Dataquest. These magazines help me to stay well informed about new topics in the IT world.
I completed my final year application project based on Java. The topic was Centralized Remote Based College Information Scheme.”
“In the past year, I focused on improving my communication and problem-solving skills.
I joined a public speaking club to become more confident in expressing my ideas.
Additionally, I took up an internship where I worked on real-world projects, which helped me understand teamwork and deadlines.
I also attended webinars and networking events to learn from industry experts.
These experiences have made me more prepared for the professional world.”
Note: Remember, certification is the key to land a job in an IT firm. So, get certified asap in your core skills.
“Yes I am. During my summer internship at Cadence, me and my friends were working together.
Ours was a mixed group with varied skills and we produced results which would have been impossible to produce individually.
I had to keep all my communication channels open at all times to ensure that the project stayed on track.
I was responsible for my part of the code and also for the collective delivery of the entire project.
I worked closely with senior key team members to keep my deliverables on track.
In the end, I was able to deliver on time and within budget.”
“A group is a collection of individuals working independently, while a team collaborates toward a common goal with shared responsibilities.
A team values communication, coordination, and mutual support, making it more effective in achieving results.
Yes, I am a team player. During my college projects, I worked closely with my peers, shared ideas, and ensured everyone contributed equally.
I believe in active collaboration, listening to different perspectives, and supporting my teammates to achieve the best results together.”
Read more answers here Are You a Team Player
“Hard work is what every breadwinner does today, including a rickshaw puller or a daily wager.
Smart work is what the educated masses like us are supposed to do, and some of us are actually doing it, like my father.
A well-balanced combination of both hard work and smart work is the secret formula to success.
I have friends who study all through the year and yet have 10 back papers to clear.
They do not have any interview calls in their kitty, and what do you think is the reason behind this?
It is their lack of understanding about smart work.
All year through, they were only working hard, but not smartly.
They did not prioritize their goals properly.
Again, there’s me, I do not have any back papers and have a decent CGPA. I am also attending this interview today.
Whatever might be the outcome, I feel I have prioritized my goals correctly and have worked both hard and smart.
That is the difference between hard work and smart work.”
“Hard work is delivering work on time with more effort and smart work is delivering work on time, with lesser effort.
I feel that is the basic difference.
Most of the times, in the corporate world, I feel a combination of both is needed to attain excellence.”
Read more answers here Difference Between Hard Work and Smart Work
“I can adapt quickly to new circumstances.
Since I am clear about my job role and I am mentally prepared to take up challenges, I feel I have the capacity to learn fast and apply my new knowledge.
During my student life, I had to clear new papers and projects in every semester and thoroughly enjoyed doing it.
Similarly, I will enjoy picking up new technologies in my professional life as well.”
“During my internship, I worked on a Big Data analytics project, which required me to quickly adapt to new technologies.
I developed a RESTful cloud application that extracts data from MongoDB/Aerospike, processes it in Spark, and outputs results in JSON, PSV, or TDE formats.
I also integrated it with Tableau Server and AWS S3. To build this, I learned Java, Scala, Dropwizard, Spark, MongoDB, SQL, Tableau SDK, YAML, Maven, and SBT within a year.
While I take time to build relationships, I am always eager to use new technologies and challenges.”
Also read: 12 Technical Skills in demand
Make sure you know each of your skills thoroughly. In case you don’t know a particular software package or a terminology, please do not talk about it in front of the interviewer.
(Keep this important tip in mind while preparing for HR interview questions and answers).
Sample Answer 1:
“I am proficient in Operating Systems like Windows and Linux. I am familiar with Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint from the Microsoft Office Suite.
I am also familiar with regular web Browsers, Photoshop and AutoCAD.”
Sample Answer 2:
“Among the Operating Systems, I am proficient in Windows NT, Windows XP, Windows ME, Mac 0SX, Windows 2000, Mac OS 8.6, Solaris, Mac 0S9, UNIX, Linux, AIX, Sun OS, OS/2, DOS, FreeBSD, Novell 4.0, Exchange 5.5, etc.
Among software solutions, I am proficient in Microsoft Office Suite, IE, Outlook Express, Lotus 1-2-3, IBM Notes, etc.
I also have good knowledge of Adobe Photoshop, Corel Draw Pro, Adobe Illustrator, Studio, FileMaker Pro, MySQL, SQL Server, SQL 6.5 & 7.0, Enterprise Manager, EZ-SQL, Net Objects Fusion, Vignette, Broad Vision, etc.
The remaining have been listed in my resume. Please have a look.”
Sample Answer 1:
“My current goal is to find a career spot that guarantees continued growth alongside new challenges daily.
3 years from now, I see myself as an experienced and reliable senior in the team and 5 years from now, I assume that I will be ready to take up managerial responsibilities like product strategy.
I want to have a stable career in a single organization and hope I will get the same wherever I start.”
Sample Answer 2:
“I see myself working for a reputed organization, at a strategic position with budgeting power, good remuneration, and minimal interference.”
Read Where Do You See Yourself in 5 Years
You can also check out specific list of interview questions and answers for freshers
Here are some commonly asked HR interview questions and answers for experienced candidates.
This question is asked exclusively to experienced professionals who have switched jobs more than two times in their entire career.
Sample Answer 1:
“You may label me a ‘frequent career-changer’ but I genuinely feel that today I am a far better employee.
My switches have helped me develop better interpersonal skills, gain diverse skills and adapt to rapidly changing business environments.
I can solve problems more efficiently and creatively, as I have learned to live with ambiguity and uncertainty. My first job helped me develop patience.
My second job helped me master spreadsheets and numbers.
My third job helped me develop better people skills and also adjust amidst culturally diverse and geographically dispersed teams.
All in all, I feel that my varied background makes me an ideal candidate for this job role today.”
Sample Answer 2:
“I never expected to work with so many companies in these few years.
The companies that I worked for were small and one of them was going through a really bad patch.
But honestly, my journey has been a rewarding one. I can now confidently walk into a new situation and successfully figure out ways to make a difference.
This was truly meant to happen and I wouldn’t exchange all the experience I’ve gained from my switches, for anything!
But I am seriously looking forward to not having to do this, any more in the near future.
I want to make a stint that lasts for 5 to 10 years with a reputed organization, such as yours.
This will make my career a stable and a fruitful one in the long run.”
Read What is the Difference Between Group and Team
This question is not applicable to first-time job seekers who are about to face a round of HR interview questions and answers.
You can skip if you are a fresher.
Mostly manager and above level interview candidates are asked this question.
Sample Answer:
“Yes, I have and believe me it feels horrible. But I know how to keep emotions at bay, while I am at work.
Firing comes at the very end of road with me.
When I set up a team, I do so very carefully after considering the past feedback and history of every single team member.
But it is not always possible to choose your team.
Sometimes, you have to work with a few rotten potatoes and it is essential to remove them from the basket, to save the rest.
I have a tendency to spot poor performers within two to three months of them or me joining a new team.
Last time I spotted one, I consulted my peers and other team members.
Then, I had to set up a one-on-one meeting with the person and gave him several warnings, both written and verbal, over a 30-day period.
I helped him prepare a list of work and behavioral goals, that I decided upon after consulting the rest of the team.
Eventually I had to fire that person because he showed zero signs of improvement, drive and motivation.
That firing was for a cause and I had no other resort left in my rule book.”
Freshers with no internship experience can move on to other question to prepare for HR interview questions and answers.
“Interesting. During my last performance review, my boss did not list any areas of improvement and gave me an outstanding rating.
However, if I were to think of one, I would guess that I need to speak up more during meetings.
I always have good ideas and contribute my thoughts to my current project.
But I discuss these ideas with my boss and let him do all the talking during meetings.
I should work on speaking up more during brainstorming sessions.”
4. Did you ever have a conflict with your current/previous boss or professor?
Sample Answer:
“I was managing the creation of our new company presentation, flyers, standees, brochure, and emailers.
My team had to meet a very tight deadline because everything had to be delivered on time.
I was in charge of the deliverables and had to manage all my team members which included marketing, sales, graphic design, events and product management.
My designer was very talented, but he, unfortunately, missed a deadline.
When I approached him about the same, he started bad-mouthing me.
I was taken aback but explained my reasoning again.
Eventually, we decided to speak to our AVP about how important and time-consuming this project was.
The AVP agreed and ended up assigning other designing projects to another graphic designer.
This took pressure off my team and then we focused on our priority.
Later my designer apologized for the blow-up and his behavior. He also thanked me for my help.”
Sample Answer:
“Last year, we wanted to improve sales by 50% but achieved just 35% which was a huge letdown, even if there was a huge boost to our ROI.
The underlying issue was that I was on a holiday and my entire team took this last big deal for granted.
They are all star performers, but I don’t know why they took this sure shot deal so lightly.
We had built a great rapport with this client over a period of 3 months and the deal had almost been wrapped up.
That was a huge failure in the recent past for me.
Eventually, the deal slipped out of our hands and impacted the overall sales percentage.”
Read What is Your Greatest Failure in Life
Sample Answer 1:
“I am patient, persistent, practical, and always positive. This helps me cope up with change smartly.”
Sample Answer 2:
“I try to stay focused on what I am and what I need. This helps me respond to change effectively.”
You might also face such HR interview questions if you are a senior executive.
“My demands as a boss are never unreal. If the workload is huge and timelines are not negotiable with my seniors, I do become a demanding boss.
Yet, as a manager, I always ensure that I help my team members progress and grow on their individual career paths.
If they are having hiccups or challenges along the way, I delegate work accordingly to make their life easy, as well as ensure project delivery on time.”
“I am just a few years of experience and nothing can be better for me than expanding my professional career in a reputed company like yours. If everything goes well, I will be looking forward to a long stint here, as long as the company needs me.”
“I believe in long hauls. I have been with 2 organizations in the past, and my stints have lasted for 5+ years. Being an experienced professional in the IT sector, I have done my homework and believe this company will surely offer a best-in-class working environment and a rewarding career.
I plan to stay for a long time here, or at least for as long as my services will be valued and required.”
This is one of the most common HR interview questions which is asked to assess whether the candidate will stick around and align him/herself with the company's mission statement.
The question can be answered in the following manner.
"I have been working with a great team in my current company and have learnt a lot from each member.
But after working with the organization for more than 4 years now, I believe I have exhausted all the challenges that could be there.
I am now looking forward to more challenges that can push my limits further and open new learning opportunities.
I believe the job role offered by your company is the perfect scope for the same and I assure you I can surely add more value to the team as well if given the chance."
You can read more about how to answer "why do you want to leave your current job?
Also Read:  Lies Employers Tell Employees and How to Spot Them
Apart from the HR interview questions we have already covered for freshers and experienced, here are some other traditional questions that might come your way.
“My ideal workplace or company is a fair one that values my contributions even as a fresher and encourages me to speak up and share my ideas.
It is a place where I can be myself, while working towards a greater goal.”
“My ideal company is the one which can bring forth exciting challenges. Such opportunities will bring out the best in me as I can use my interests and experiences to grow.
I like my present workplace as it offers all this along with a clean and professional work atmosphere, and more.
But I am looking forward to a company that is actively involved in social welfare, and your organization does exactly that.”
Don’t just talk about your strengths, your interviewer genuinely wants to know about your strong points.
“I am passionate towards my work and also a good listener, which means, I take my instructions seriously.
I am not a person who leaves things midway. I never lose focus, even if I am under stress or have stringent deadlines to meet.
I like to finish every single task on my to-do list completely.
Optimism, energy and my ability to learn quickly let me hit the ground and rapidly solve problems.
I also have good communication skills which means I can deal fairly well with my business clients as well as with the members of my internal team, in the future.
Based on my skills, abilities, and experience, I know I would be a great addition to the team.”
“I’ve been told that I’m a very good manager.
My team tells me that I give them a lot of freedom in how to do their work, which they really appreciate.
They also say that I’m really enthusiastic, so when we’re faced with too much work, they tell me that my manner really helps to keep them motivated and calm.
My boss also tells me that I’m very innovative in terms of finding new ways of working that cut out inefficiency.”
“Yes, I am quite organized. I keep all my documents, certificates and files labelled and sorted.
The labels are such that I can retrieve anything that I need instantly, in seconds. I also have a very clean desktop in my computer.”
“Organization comes naturally to me.
My desk, folders, software files, clothes, kitchen and everything else is always well arranged, sorted and neatly kept.
Thanks to my spouse and mom for instilling this skill as a habit in me.”
“I make a to-do list with timelines and stick to this until any further revision of schedule is announced. That’s how I manage time.”
“I decide on the order of my task list and prioritize tasks according to the instructions from my seniors.
I try to deliver urgent tasks first and then the remaining ones.
In case the urgency part is unclear, I prioritize complicated or time taking projects over the simpler and smaller ones.
Throughout the process, I keep adapting and updating my seniors to ensure that I am on track and my efforts are not getting wasted.”
Also read: 15 powerful time management tips
“Yes, I am a reliable person. I like helping my friends and family, whenever I get a chance. Be it an emotional boost or a financial aid, I am always around for them.”
“Yes, I am not only reliable but also a very dependable person. If a task is assigned to me, it will be dutifully handled and completed within the stipulated deadline.”
Freshers, do not say ‘YES!’ at once. This will only show your desperation to be a part of the company. Answer carefully like this. (This is an important tip for your HR interview questions and answers).
“I would definitely consider it. If the opportunity given to me is appropriate, rewarding and feasible, I don’t think I will have any issues with the relocation or traveling involved.”
You need to understand the purpose of this question. Answer correctly, as explained above.
Your interviewer wants to find out if you have relatives, friends or acquaintances working for the organization.
From a psychological point of view, they want to know if you already have a mentor within the organization.
So it is recommended that you frame a positive answer while facing your round of HR interview questions and answers.
“I’m good friends with the daughter of Mr. XYZ, who is a part of this organization.
My friend is not your employee, but thinks very highly of this organization and has been constantly encouraging me to apply.
That is the reason why I am here today, as the more I learned about this company, the more I wanted to become a part of it.”
Also read: How to get a job referral?
“My short-term goal is to join a reputed company, like yours, where my job role would allow me to apply my knowledge and key strengths.
I want to get recognized for my contribution to the company in the long-run.”
“I’ve picked up Marketing Automation basics during my first job, which lasted for two years.
Now I am prepared to take up a bigger and more challenging project.
I want to see myself as a marketing analyst in the next two years, that would be my short-term goal.
Following which, I would see myself as an end-to-end Digital Marketing Strategist or a Manager in the long run.”
“Yours is one of the fastest growing and leading IT firms in India. Both your mission statement and tag line, are catchy and very attractive.
Everyone I know, who is a part of this organization, is very happy about working here. I think this will be a great place for me to perform, show my talent and get recognized as well.”
Fun Fact:
Company knowledge matters: 47% of applicants fail interviews due to insufficient knowledge about the company and the job description.
Let’s take a look at some behavioural HR interview questions and how to answer them.
“Personally, I am not too fond of conflicts. I don’t like it when people are mean, so I try to avoid conflicts and tongue-lashing as far as possible.
In case such a situation arises, I let my seniors or professors handle it.
I cannot recollect the exact situation right now, but that’s what I have done in the past.”
“In my previous job, a client was yelling on the phone. I understand that his reaction was completely out of frustration.
So instead of taking it personally, I tried to calm him done, and ensured that his concern was well heard. How did I do it?
Well, I listened to him carefully and apologized once he finished. It ended up being a win-win situation for everyone.”
“Honesty, loyalty, and determination to achieve my team’s target.”
“Professionalism, growth and a healthy work-life balance are important.”
“Choosing Engineering over Medical Science after 12th was my toughest personal decision. But I think I have made the right choice.”
“When I was asked to step in as a temporary team leader for the first time, I still remember how I missed a couple of key communications from the manager. This pushed our deadlines back by 2 weeks. It was a great lesson and since then, I always make it a point to focus on the big-picture, instead of looking at smaller projects.”
“I can’t exactly recollect. Since I am hoping to become a software developer, I have to be creative at all times. Writing code not only requires technical expertise and logic but also creativity to a great extent. Only then the solutions developed will be flexible and be accommodating.”
“I like to work under pressure. It brings out the best in me as well as helps me grow. I learn faster and perform well when I have a strict deadline, because I plan accordingly, work in a more organized manner and also tend to finish my tasks with more efficiency.
In my current job role, deadlines and ‘pressure situations’ are common, and I have grown immune to them.”
The purpose of this question is to test your attitude toward feedback and criticism.
Show that you are flexible and willing to make changes and modifications, when necessary.
“To err is human, and I too have faltered at times in interpreting a client's/company’s briefings and/or expectations.
However, maintaining a cordial relationship with the clients as well as with my seniors helps me discuss and resolve the gaps without any fear or distress.”
“I have learnt that it is best to take criticism positively.
Feedback and criticism help one to look at things from a different perspective, which results in a better understanding of the situation.
It ultimately helps one gain useful insights into one's strengths and weaknesses.”
Here are some common opinion-based HR questions for interview and their answers.
Remember that this is a stress test question.
Don’t simply talk about your weaknesses, your interviewer genuinely wants you to talk about your loopholes!
Try to resist the urge to give him/her more points to reject you. Answer diplomatically.
“I work too hard sometimes and care too much about my work. I take my tasks back home and work even during the weekends.
You can call me a workaholic, but my family always points out that this is not right.
Slowly and steadily, I am realizing that speed and working smartly are the key.
So, I have begun to reach out to my colleagues for ready-to-use workarounds so that I can give more time to my family.”
“I recently completed my internship at Tata Steel Ltd., Tata Center, Kolkata.
My project lead told me that in the beginning, I was a little lost, but by the end of the summer internship program, she knew that she could count on me.”
“Since I like to build strong professional relationships with my teammates, most of them have become great friends.
We have been spending eight hours a day, five days a week for several years now.
So, I am sure that whatever they say, will be realistic and not made up.
One thing that they will surely mention about me is my love for food! The rest is up to you to find out.”
“I get angry when I get falsely accused of something that I did not do.
Lack of order and discipline also irritates me, but 4 years of hostel life have taught me to cope and adjust with other people.”
“It is always good to venture into new waters and new technologies.
I am a very adaptive person and my diligence helps me pick up new stuff quickly.
Experimenting or taking risks can yield both good and bad results, but the exercise in itself is a great learning experience.
Such experiences generate experts and I want to become an SME or a JAVA subject matter expert someday.”
“Meeting the set target within an assigned deadline motivates me the most.
When I do so, I get a sense of accomplishment and fulfilment.
When this is coupled with an award, I feel all the more motivated.
All in all, I like to achieve milestones, so that I can look back at them and say to myself, ‘Yes, that was my achievement.’ Visible results also motivate me.”
“Success makes me happy. I also feel happy after accomplishing my task or makes me happy achieving my goals. Holidaying with my family also makes me happy!”
“Yes, I would still work, to build my career. As far as the lottery money is concerned, I will buy a huge house for my Mom and Dad.”
“The amount you quoted is not huge, considering the fact that my spouse is a social worker! In order to sustain my existence and my family’s welfare, I would still keep working.”
You can talk about your own passion here. This is a commonly asked question in all ‘HR interview questions and answers’ lists.
“I am passionate about painting. I have been a painter all along, ever since my childhood.
Even today, I take advanced art classes during the weekends.
The whole exercise of beautifying a blank canvas with colors relaxes me. It is my way of unwinding.”
HR interview questions can often get tricky and this is where candidates makes mistakes. So, to help you out, here are some common tricky HR questions for interview and their answers.
Other variations of this question are as follows:
So, do not feel unarmed or look surprised. Keep your calm and answer smartly with a strong and indestructible logic.
“As soon as I graduated, I felt the urge to start working in the real world. It’s not that I am a total novice.
I have undergone 3 internships, of which 2 are paid from reputed organizations.
This credential has helped me land an offer from one of those firms.
I sometimes wonder whether I should have first completed my post-graduation.
Had I done so, I wouldn’t have been able to develop my complete portfolio.
And I am hoping that my track record will help me get selected for this position in your esteemed organization.”
“I have never been a great public speaker. The very thought of facing a crowd used to make me nervous.
When I started college, my best friend advised me that I had to get over this roadblock to shine through.
So, last year, I took the bold step of trying my hand at public speaking. I joined the Debate Club in my college.
Since then, I have participated in multiple contests.
Initially, I stammered, forgot my lines, dropped the microphone once due to my sweaty palms and even got booed at or scolded by the judges.
Yet, I kept on participating. Last month, for the very first time in a year, I won the third prize.
It was a great boost to my self-confidence.
I believe that it is my greatest feat so far, even bigger than my AIEEE rank.”
HR interview questions and answers are a way of testing you in and out. The HR interviewer may ask you this question to gauge your self-confidence.
“I rate my leadership skills an 8 out of 10. There is much to learn, but I have always been a strong leader.
I was the head boy/girl during my school days and in the college, I was a Senior Wing NCC Cadet.
I have completed my C-certificate and have earned lots of badges in several NCC camps.
I have led the Senior Boys/Girls contingent at the Republic Day Camp in 2012 as well.”
“Till date, I have accomplished several goals and milestones in my career as an app developer.
The one that rings a bell is the latest version update on a core product of my current organization for customer profiling and payments.
We had been slogging on this version update for 12 months at a stretch and I was a core team member.
My team made me their team lead during the last 6 months and at that time, we were working on the mobile components of the product.
To meet the deadline, I brought in 5 more resources, who had expertise in certain technologies, which were crucial for the pending modules.
After the deployment of each of the component, all of us cross-trained to support all the platforms proficiently.
In the end, we were able to deliver the project within time and budget constraints.
Our CEO was highly impressed and all of us were also awarded at the quarterly town hall in December.
Would you like to take a look at the Android version of our product?”
“It is yet to come. The day I land my first job in a reputed company such as yours, will be my proudest achievement. That moment is still pending.”
“I am very proud of how I helped ABC company set up successful sales funnel by satisfying 60,000 hyper-responsive customers.
I even won a ‘Best Performer’ award and 100% incentive payout for the same.”
“I still regret turning down the position offered to me at XYZ company last year.
I have gained good experience in my present organization.
But it’s good that I turned it down, otherwise, I wouldn’t have been promoted and become a Manager.
Neither I would have got the opportunity to interview with your esteemed organization today!”
This is rarely asked to professionals during interview discussions pertaining to HR interview questions and answers.
“At college, we had an 85% attendance adherence rule. I followed this rule all along.
If there are certain policies in the company pertaining to an employee’s attendance, I will surely abide by them.”
When the interview comes to an end, you might come across salary-related HR questions. Here are some common ones and their sample answers.
“My salary expectations are in line with the current industry standards, according to my experience and qualifications.”
“Sir/Ma’am, I am sure your company is already paying a specific package to someone in a similar position.
Hence, I would like to know your budget, if you do not mind. Accordingly, I can put forth my expectations.”
Read more answers here What Are Your Salary Expectation
If you are interested to know your exact in-hand salary, use this free Take Home Salary Calculator
You can also read all about your salary and its various components from this blog post.
Do not get intimidated with this HR interview question and answer. You can be open about the other offer or keep it private, depending on how happy you are with it.
HR recruiters generally ask this to understand your demand in the market. They also want to know that by the time they interview you and reach the offer stage, you would have already accepted another one.
“Yes Sir/Ma’am, I am negotiating verbally about an offer with the HR of a startup company right now. But there is no documentation to support the same. So, nothing is concrete yet.”
“I’ve been talking to ABC company for the past 15 days, but it is not final yet. I am interested in working with them, but I’m still not sure. Is there something you know about company ABC that you can share with me?”
Wondering if you should negotiate salary? Read how to negotiate salary
“No I don’t.”
Play safe with this answer while you face your HR interview questions and answers round. If you have an offer letter already, keep it a secret till the salary negotiation stage comes up.
There, you can negotiate your remunerations on the basis of your current drawn package and also the offer letter that you have.
Hacks to Get a Higher Salary Package at Any Company
"Yes, I am exploring multiple opportunities to find the best fit for my skills and career growth. Your company is one of my top choices because of its work culture and exciting opportunities. However, my primary focus is securing a role where I can contribute effectively and grow professionally."
With this question, the interviewer is judging if you are disciplined and structured in your work.
To answer this question, you must communicate your ability to maintain your work schedule without compromising on its quality.
"I am quite disciplined as a person, and I believe in doing my work in a planned and organized manner.
A well thought out plan and discipline in execution is the foundation of high-quality work."
"In my X years of professional experience, I have rarely missed a deadline.
Barring extraordinary circumstances, I am usually able to stick to my writing schedule without compromising on quality.
Besides that, I get along well with people which helps in maintaining a good work environment."
Fun Fact:
Morning interviews have an edge – Nearly 61% of employers prefer conducting interviews earlier in the day.
Apart from all the HR interview questions we have mentioned above, here are some final questions you might encounter. Here’s how to answer them.
Note: Please make sure that you talk about relevant health conditions, wherever needed while having a discussion during your HR interview questions and answers round.
A “serious health condition” generally includes pregnancy or any chronic disease such as epilepsy and cancer.
“I am partially colour blind. Sometimes I face difficulty in distinguishing between colours.
For example, I cannot see shades or tones of the same colour.
But for your information, no adjustments would be required on your part to accommodate this minor disability.
As you can see from my resume, it does not have any impact on my ability to get the job done.”
“I do not have severe health issues, but I do have a migraine issue.
But I am undergoing both acute (abortive) and preventive (prophylactic) therapies and most of my colleagues know about it.
The situation is completely under control and I have been almost cured.”
“I do not have any serious medical issues.”
“As far as night shifts are concerned, I would like to say that I am a nocturnal person and I like to do my studies generally at night.
I have no issues working during weekends and at night, provided I get enough compensatory offs to relax and wind down.”
“Sir, my body clock has got tuned into regular weekday shifts from 9 to 6.
I am not comfortable working nights and weekends on a regular basis, unless there is some urgent deliverable or a resource crunch in the team, I will surely pitch in.
But working odd shifts is not good for the mental and physical health of employees and I hope you understand the same.
Yet, if the company needs my presence mandatorily at night or during the weekend for continued growth and success, I will definitely work for it.”
Never say “no” as this is perhaps the worst response ever given by any interview candidate!
Coming back to the situation, the best answer for a fresher is as follows:
“Yes, I do!”
This is probably your very first chance during the interview, to ask a question. Questioning will indicate that as a fresher, you came well-prepared for the interview and you are still absorbed in the conversation.
Make a general list of five questions about the company and ask them to your interviewer, after all other HR interview questions and answers are over.
“How has your journey been so far in this organization?
What excites you the most about working here?
How long does it ideally take a person to prove their calibre here?
Where is the organization headed in the next years?
What are the next steps of this interview?”
In case you already know everything about your potential employer, you can ask the interviewer a direct question like:
“Can you tell me something about yourself?”
Everyone likes to talk about themselves, so this is a safe question amongst all other HR interview questions and answers. In the end, try to throw in an enthusiastic conversation ender like:
“It was great talking to you!”
Read detailed article on questions to ask in an interview
Lastly, wait for the interviewer to utter “Thank You” or any other concluding line.
Now it’s your turn to get up, put your hand out for a handshake and then step out of the interview room.
Fun Fact:
Hiring takes time – 52% of companies have an interview process that lasts between 4 to 6 weeks.
Here are a few other frequently asked HR questions that you might encounter in your interview.
Fun Fact:
Multiple interviews are common – More than half of employers require candidates to go through at least four interview rounds.
Here are some interview tips to help you make a strong impact and improve your chances of getting hired.
Fun Fact:
70% of employers believe inappropriate attire can cost you the job?
Fun Fact:
Recent interview experience boosts success – Having had an interview in the past two months increases your chances of getting an offer to 37%.
Wrapping Up
We hope that this compilation of some of the most frequently asked HR interview questions and answers will help you ace in your next HR interview round.
And hey, if you are still searching for your dream job, visit Naukri.com—where the right opportunity is just a click away!
Wish you all the best! Once you are done with your interview, don’t forget to share your interview experience with us.
We would love to know how it went. All the best!
Read more posts by this author.
India, 3 March 2026: India's white-collar job market posted its strongest February performance in recent years, with the Naukri JobSpeak Index reaching 3,233 points - up 12% year-on-year from 2,890 points
Key highlights:



 * Logical reasoning is the ability to analyse information using facts and clear logic to reach correct and unbiased conclusions.
 * Logical reasoning questions appear in major government and entrance exams like SSC,
Are you interviewing for the accounting job profile? If you are wondering what type of questions you are likely to face in the interview, we are here to help. Below given is a list of common accounting interview questions that can help you prepare well for your upcoming interview.
A career objective is a crucial aspect of a professional resume. Get it right with this article and check out samples to write effective career objectives.
India, 1 February 2026: India's white-collar hiring began 2026 on a steady footing, with the Naukri JobSpeak Index climbing to 2637 points in January - a 3% YoY rise from 2550 points in
Writing a sample application for a job vacancy? Here's a detailed article on job application letters with samples to help you get started.
Create your Free Naukri profile today and get noticed by top Recruiters
Register now and get matched with top companies hiring today.